## Tamlin meeting
im about to meet with tamlin. ill put notes in here and you copy them down please. it will go into updating our plans and stuff:
things ppl want in 17c: 3 categories. #1 updated flow directions (must validate) 2# statistics of swot data attached to sword, ppl really want a 10th, 50th and 90th percentile. science reqiiorement is better 1.7 cm per km. noise floor should
remain. width median, wse median (question about filters). something out there for the community that is useable. pick something manageable insofar as filtering (what merritt used?, but was version D, TBD on filters, tamlin will send email
out.). send tamlin what filters were doing. Last thing ppl wanna see are improvements in type 1 vs type 3 flagging. were not gonna fix temporally variable reservoir outlets. thats version E. But there are cases where u have a narrow reservoir. sword centerline goes out of it. so lake gets chopped in two. thoughts from me. maybe have some minimum size requirements for a lake to break up a river. way we might figure that out is if we tied the PLD LAKEID to SWORD (probably go back and look at that!). if you have a situation where a lake ID and REACH_ID are same or something. other thing is 

Way node ids are designed. Should march upstream in continuous order. Node 1 is most downstream. But because now theyre flipped. Node X is gonna be bottom and other is gonna be top.

Provide field. To our knowledge, this is the most upstream and the most downstream node in the reach. Add these as columns

Flow accumulation

If we have our flow direction correct: wouldnâ€™t there be a strong relationship between reach accumulation and flow accumulation: number of upstream reaches mismatch? Good way to identify?

Should have a bunch of reaches that flow into it or a trib. 

And if you have two options to choose, that should help in the merit hydro. Important to identify wrong facc values: humor tamlin and look at it.

April 15th

At meeting talk with them about what to do:


## Relevant email from person we need to appease:

[EMAIL CONTENT]

## Meeting with Mike durand and tamlin on FACC corrections

Need SWORD 17c into JPL on April 15th

hard to amtch validation gages (near confluences), 5-10% of gages are mismatched in validation. Affects the disharge validation: changing SWORD is the best. 

ballpark values are great, will assign gage to the mainstem. Integrator is about consistency and it all needs to add up. can enforce the fix internally. their fix uses same implementation as the integrator.

asks whast the change in drainage area from downsteram to upstream. size of local watersheds contributing (which are usually pretty small). after fixed egregious ones manually. something about how the drainage area is set up.

teh fix, an optimizaiton problem where u try to stay as close as u can to draiange that u started with. allow for fact that some are wrong. and pull from level 6 and find actual drainage area (from hydrosheds)

10^2 km channels?? only in floodplain really, usually anomalous

other thought from tamlin: all the training data include deltas? (if so, we should remove deltas (or even not even predict them)

drainage area in bifurcations???? tamlin thoughts: just train model on main network. mike's thoughts: in the integrator, he needs conservation to be kept. so split drainage area to channels. still needs to calculaute the small channel addition. the runoff from the small watersheds

could imagine drainage area concept doesnt make sense. the discharge flowing itself 

do it first on main network, then more simple logic, we can divide correctly etc. train it on that. without weird bifurcations. once those are correct. them you can impose logic to conserve mass and the like:

send over north america and europe v17c. 


for mikes code: he needs flow accumulation to be conserved. could also be that at every junction we conserve it. we can fudge facc numbers for this.

JIDA one: need to fix

searhc by lake: reach out to jida for PLD lightweight. 

is 

